---
layout: post
comments: true
title: MIT's Computer Systems Eng. class (6.033)
---

[6.033 course website Spring 2019 (link works as of August 2019)](http://web.mit.edu/6.033/www/index.shtml)

If you're course 6-3 student at MIT you'll probably find yourself taking 
[6.033 - Computer Systems Engineering](https://ocw.mit.edu/courses/electrical-engineering-and-computer-science/6-033-computer-system-engineering-spring-2018/)
 at one point or another. It is one of the 4 header classes that touches on the major
  principles involved in designing a computer system. From the course description:
  > Topics on the engineering of computer software and hardware
   systems: techniques for controlling complexity; strong 
   modularity using client-server design, operating systems; 
   performance, networks; naming; security and privacy; 
   fault-tolerant systems, atomicity and coordination of
    concurrent activities, and recovery; impact of
     computer systems on society. Case studies of 
     working systems and readings from the current
      literature provide comparisons and contrasts. 
      Includes a single, semester-long design project.
       Students engage in extensive written communication exercises. 
       Enrollment may be limited. 


I took this class in my Junior Spring and although it wasn't my all-time-favorite, I did end
up learning a lot of applicable material that I encounter every day at school, internships etc.

One of the main components in this class are the readings, that are usually long papers
related to a concept being learned at the time. Along with those readings there are short question to reinforce your 
understanding of what you've read.

In this post I'll share some of those questions and answers in the hope that it will serve as a useful reference to
current and past students. However, I'd like to emphasize that if you happen to have the same paper and questions you are 
not supposed to bluntly copy-paste these answers, but try to actually understand the material
and answer the questions with your own words.



### The readings: questions and answers
**Disclaimer:** the answers here are not guaranteed to be 100% correct; I wrote them while I was still learning
the material. Use at your own risk.
##### 1. Book section 4.4: "Case study: The Internet Domain Name System (DNS)"

What is the purpose of DNS?
>The DNS serves to map user-friendly string domain names to machine-oriented binary identifiers for network attachment points i.e. network addresses.

How does it work?
> In the adopted distributed directory service model there are many name servers each of which is responsible for resolving some subset of domain names. There is also a protocol for finding a server that can resolve any particular name. There are additional features that enhance robustness in case of name server failure, and features that allow flexibility if a domain  name changes.

Why was it designed to work that way?
>This hierrarchical distributed design provides speed (caching and efficient referrals), scalabilty (adding more name servers), robustness (recovery from failure), simplicity (the average user doesn’t need to know about DNS) and flexibility (by using synonym bindings for domain names). 

##### 2. (part 1) The UNIX Time-Sharing System

What is UNIX?
> Unix is a general-purpose, multi-user, interactive operating system, designed around 1970s.

How is its filesystem designed?
> The UNIX filesystem is designed as a hierarchical tree structure which has a special top-level directory known as the root. From the point of view of the user, there are three kinds of files: ordinary disk files, directories, and special files. Every filename is mapped to an i-node, which contains all the necessary information about a file, and is stored at i-number index of i-list.

Why was it designed to work that way?
> The benefit of using i-list is the fact that each file has a short, unambiguous name related in a simple way to the protection, addressing, and other information needed to access the file. To the user, both reading and writing of files appear to be synchronous and unbuffered. The UNIX filesystem is scalable, fast, secure and user-friendly.
 
##### 3. (part 2) The UNIX Time-Sharing System

What does the UNIX shell do?
> The shell can be thought of as an interface for communicating with the system by executing programs as requested by the user. 

How does it work?
> A user writes  commands in the shell (and maybe some arguments) which are parsed by the command-line interpreter and executed. Programs execited by the shell start off with 3 open files with descriptors 0, 1 and 2. File 1 is standard output file (most often the terminal); file 0 is the standard input file; file 2 is associated with file 1 and provides diagnostic messages to the terminal when an output file is used.

Why is it useful?
> The shell is useful because it provides users with full access to the facilities of the system. It also has a simple interface and various capabilities such as: reading/writing from/to output file, filtering, writing commands on same line, multitasking (running several commands at the same time), navigating through directories, moving, copying, deleting files etc

##### 4. Eraser: A Dynamic Data Race Detector for Multithreaded Programs

What are the goals of Eraser?
> The main goal of Eraser is to detect dynamic data-races in multithreaded programs. Effectiveness and practicality were important. Performance was not a priority. It was better for Eraser to issue false positives than false negatives.

How was it designed to meet those goals?
> Erases is implemented using the Lockset algorithm which enforces the locking discipline that every shared variable is protected by a lock. As this approach proved too strict, it was modified to account for instances which are free from data races (initialization, read-share data, read-write locks). To get rid of the false positives, Eraser was enchanced to support program annotation to supress warnings.

Why do we need a tool like Eraser? (Or why do the authors believe that we need such a tool?)
>Multithreaded programs are ubiquitous but bugs related to multithreading can be extremely challenging to detect and resolve. The authors believe the corectness of a program should be demonstrable, and using tools such as Eraser could help in this goal. They believe that dynamic data racing detection should be a standard procedure in any disciplined testing effort for multithreaded program. 

##### 5. MapReduce: Simplified Data Processing on Large Clusters

What are the performance goals of MapReduce (both the programming model + its implementation)?
> Performance is a crucial component of MapReduce as the main goal is to process more data in a shorter amount of time. The goal is to make use of distributed computation to parallelize the execution of tasks that can be done simultaneously.

How was MapReduce implemented at Google to meet those goals?
> This is  achieved by distributing the Map and Reduce tasks into different workers on many machines in a cluster. This is controlled by a master worker which assigns the tasks. To save network badwidth this design also makes use of locality, i.e. the fact that input data is stored on machines that make up the cluster. To deal with stagglers which slow the execution of the last steps of a task, the MapReduce design allows for backup tasks which significantly improve performance.

Why was MapReduce implemented in this way?
> It was implemented in this way because it provides an abstraction that hides the details of parallelization, fault-tolerance, load-balacing etc and provides the user with a simple interface to accomplish variety of tasks. This design also makes it easily scalable (adding more machines), fault-tolerant (if a machine fails pass the task onto another).


##### 6. Ethernet: Distributed Packet Switching for Local Computer Networks

How does Ethernet control access to the shared Ether?
> The Ether is passive and simply copies a packet to all destinations matching the destination address bits. The control for access to the Ether belongs to the individual controllers and is based on statistical arbitration. If a packet is already in the process of being transmitted, no other packages can be sent (i.e. the attempt to send them fails and retries after a certain amount of time based on how many failures it already had). 

How is that similar to, or different from, the way that our group discussions work in recitation?

> The students can be thought of as the distributed controllers; the package represent the voice that the rest of us hear. When a student is talking no other student can talk (or at least shouldn’t) and they know this because they can hear the sound of somebody else speaking. Once there is silence other student can talk. If there are multiple students willing to talk, they can raise their hands to indicate that, which is a bit different from Ethernet. The equivalent behavior of Ethernet would be if the students started to talk and stopped once they realized they’re not the only ones talking (which happens, but rarely, and it is not the protocol)


##### 7. The Design Philosophy of the DARPA Internet Protocols

What were three of the most important goals of the early Internet?

> The fundamental goal was to connect existing networks into a large network. The other three important goals were:
Reliability i.e. survivability in the face of failure,
flexibility i.e. to support different types of service, distinguished by the different requirements,
variety of networks, ex. For military or commercial facilities

How was it designed to meet those goals?

> It makes a minimal set of assumptions about what a network should do, which allows for flexibility.
It uses packet switching as opposed to circuit switching as the networks that had to be integrated used packet switching. The fundamental feature is the datagram, which can be thought of as a generic type of packet that allows flexibility.
The flow state is stored at the endpoint of the flow (fate sharing), accountability not a priority
It enables layering, ex. TCP and the bottom layer IP are separate, allows flexibility in types of services
It is decentralized, related to reliability.

Why were those goals important (or, why does the author believe that those goals were important)?
> This was important for the author because the networks were original meant to be used in the military where due to the hostile environment survivability was much more important than, for example cost or accountability.

##### 8. Resilient Overlay Networks

What is the goal of RON?
> RON has three main goals:
>- Fast failure detection and recovery (less than 20 sec)
>- Tighter integration with applications 
>- Expressive policy routing (choice of several paths in the network)

How was it designed to meet this goal?
> RON is an application layer overlay network and deploys nodes in different Internet routing domains. Nodes communicate within eachother and exchange information. RON quickly detects problems by using active probing and passive observations of ongoing transfers and then exchanges this information with other nodes.

Why do we need RON? (Or why do the authors believe that we need RON?)
> The authors suggest that RON is a good platform on which various resilient distributed Internet applications may be delivered and which will allow researchers developing new protocols to test their schemas under real-world conditions.

##### 9. Data Center TCP (DCTCP)

What is the goal of DCTCP?
> The goal of DCTCP is to improve TCP for data centers by providing lower latency, higher throughput and higher burst tolerance.

How does DCTCP differ from TCP?
> One major difference is that TCP always halves the window size when it detects congestion, while DCTCP considers the amount of congestion and adjusts the window size as necessary, not copromising utilization. To achieve this DCTCP introduces a configurable parameter K indicating the threshold for buffer occupancy, something which TCP does not have.

Why does DCTCP differ from TCP?
> DCTCP is able to quickly detect congestions and inform the sender about it which helps in reducing packet drops and improving throughput and latency. The main idea is that DCTCP 	reacts not only to the presence of congenstion but to the extent of it, which provides better 	utilization than TCP.

##### 10. End-to-end Arguments in System Design

What is the end-to-end argument (what does it state)?
> The end-to-end principle states that application-specific features should be put in the end points of a system as opposed to the intermidiate points such as routers or gateways (in case of networks).

How is the end-to-end argument used in practice? Give at least one example.
> One example is “careful file transfer”. There are many ways things can go wrong during file transfer but in an end-to-end approach we care only about whether the packet got from the source to the target. This is done by providing a checksum in the packet which reliably confirms that the packet was transferred successfully. This checksum is performed on an application level as opposed to somewhere in between (during transfer).

Do you agree with the end-to-end argument? Why or why not?
> I think end-to-end argument makes sense because it offers decentralization, flexibility (it does not incorporate featres specific to any application), ease of design and modification, generally better performance etc. I would say I agree with the argument but I don’t think I know enough to strongly argue for or against it.


##### 11.  The Akamai Network: A Platform for High-Performance Internet Applications

What aspect(s) of the Internet's infrastructure is Akamai's platform designed to overcome?
> The Internet is designed as best-effort network and does not guarantee end-to-end reliability and performance, which is what Akamai’s pltform tries to overcome. The authors also mention several challenges with Internet delivery such as peering point congestion, inefficient routing and communication protocols, unreliable networks, scalability and slow rate of change adoption.

How is the platform designed to overcome those aspects?
> The platform is highly distributed. The main component are the edge-servers located in different places in the world which allow for physical proximity with an end user. The client first connects to the nearest edge server and then this edge server coordinates traffic in an enhanced manner to the origin server using transport system with advanced caching strategies.

Why is it necessary for Akamai to overcome those aspects?
> For today’s businesses it is often crucial to to provide fast and reliable service. Furthermore, there is an increased demand for video streaming (including live streaming) which requires better performance and surpassing the bottleneck challenges present in the Internet architecture (for example TCP, middleground in peer to peer networks etc)

##### 12. The Google File System

What assumptions does GFS rely on?
>- system components are norm and not exception
>- the files stored are large
>- the workloads consist of large streaming and small random reads
>- the workloads has many writes that appends data to files
>- for concurrent appends: atomicity with minimal synchronization overhead is
important
>- high sustained bandwidth is more important than low latency

How does it exploit those assumptions?
> GFS stored data into larger chunks (64 MB) to exploit the fact that most data is
read in continious pieces (streaming data) or modification which is appending as
opposed to overwriting a file. GFS has a Master, chunkservers and clients. To
avoid having too much traffic at the Master (which stored metadata), the clients
get the data directly from the chunkservers upon receiving information about the
location from the Master. Chunks are replicated on several chunkservers which
accounts for the fact that failures are common.

Why does GFS make those assumptions?
> These (updated) assumptions are more consistent with the current and
anticipated application workloads at Google. Given the large amount of data
stored in inexpensive commodity machines, it is crucial to have good fault-
tolerance, error detection and recovery on a system that performs well in
practice.


##### 13. The Zettabyte File System

What aspect(s) of the Unix file system was ZFS designed to overcome?
>- Complex administration – need for manual configuration (the user or administrator needs to know how to partition disks, create logical device or new filesystem).
>- Limited capacity -  while every capacity is “limited” in a way, some designs inherently make it easier to have more storage
>- Poor data integrity guaranteers – the chances of losing data are higher in the older filesystem designs; silent data corruption was unacceptable

How is ZFS designed to overcome those issues?
> ZFS is designed with a focus on data integrity, simple administration and large capacities. It uses storage pools with data redundancy to manage physical storage. Basically, ZFS aggregates devices into a storage pool, removing the need for creating virtualized volumes. Furthermore ZFS is transactional file system and data is never overwritten, but copied (copy-on-write). It also uses checksums and redundancy to detect and fix corrupted data.

Why is it important for ZFS to overcome those aspects? Why is GFS not an adequate solution?
> The need for scalable storage solutions and algorithms, the ease of administration and the higher data integrity guaranteers are all desirable attributes of a filesystem. GFS lacks (more or less) in all three aspects. 

##### 14. Concurrency Control and Recovery


What is an example from the paper that illustrates the trade-off between implementing ACID transaction properties and maintaining good performance?
> One example is NO-STEAL/FORCE policy.  A NO-STEAL  policy ensures that data written on non-volatile storage is valid, so there is no need for recovery. FORCE policy ensures that all updates are written to non-volatile storage, before they are commited.

How does that policy or technique trade off performance?
> NO-STEAL/FORCE policy places fewest demands on UNDO and REDO because the data is kept updated on the not only on the volatile but also on the non-volatile storage. This polciy is good when there are crashes or rollbacks, it trades-off performance during normal operation.

Why would you use this policy or technique? (In what context, under what circumstances, etc.)
> If there is a system that experiences a lot of failures, it is better to use a policy that is fast in recovering.  


##### 15. In Search of an Understandable Consensus Algorithm

In Raft, what is the leader's function?
> The leader handles clients requests which then will result in requests made to the followers.  Also, the leader has the responsibility of deciding when it is safe to apply a given entry to the state machines of the followers. A leader never overwrites or deletes entries in its log; it only appends new entries.

How does the leader work?
> The leader sends AppendEntries RPC to its followers to establish its authority and to replicate log entries whenever a client sends a request. Once the majority of servers receive these messages the leader applies the entry to its state machine and responds to the client. After this the leader ensures that all followers eventually receive these log entries. 

Why does Raft need a leader?
> The leader ensures that all servers execute the same commands in the given order which helps in achieving consistency.


##### 16.  Why Cryptosystems Fail

In your mind, what is the root cause of the majority of the attacks detailed in Section 3?
> Most of the attacks that were not high-tech were caused either by obviously insecure practices such as printing account numbers on tickets or putting the encrypted pin on the card strip or they were caused by management/implementation errors. Often they were caused by internal attacks (employees of the bank)

Pick one of the attacks. How was that root cause exploited in that attack?
> The second attack described the case of observing a person using the ATM so that they can see the PIN and picking up the discarded ticket where the account number was clearly written. Then a new card was created and used to loot customer’s accounts. The fact that the account numbers were easy to get, the PIN was relatevely easy to infer by observing the person using the ATM and there was no cryptographic redundancy on the card made the attack possible.

Why wasn't the attack prevented in the first place? What could have been done to prevent it, if anything?
> The cards were not secure enough (could be replicated by knowing the account# and PIN) and the public was unaware of the threat (didn’t pay attention to ensure that nobody was observing them when entering the PIN and threw the ticket with the full account number away). Clearly, one of the biggest errors was printing the full account number on the ticket in the first place. Also, the cards should contain some sort of cryptographic redundancy that distinguishes the original card vs a duplicated/fake one.

##### 17. Security Vulnerabilities in DNS and DNSSEC

From a security standpoint, what does DNSSEC provide? (e.g., confidentially, authentication, etc.)
> DNSSEC provides origin authentication and data integrity by using digital signatures based on public key cryptography. It does not provide confidentiality and does not protect against buffer overruns or DDoS attacks.

How does it provide that?
> The answers from DNSSEC servers are digitally signed. By checking the signature, a DNSSEC resolver is able to check if the information originated from a legitimate server and that data is identical to the data on the authoritative DNS server. A public key is used by DNS servers and Resolvers to verify the secure zone’s digital signature.
If the data is not present on the server an authenticated denial is produced.

Why is DNSSEC necessary (or is it necessary?), and why hasn't it been fully deployed?
> DNS lacks authentication and data integrity in the transaction process, which makes it really insecure. DNSSEC addresses these issues as it provides integrity and authentication to DNS data. However, it has its vulnerabilities and it is complex to implement, which might be some of the reasons why it is not widely accepted. Additionally, it has some drawbacks such as increased computational load (increased query response time), lack of management tools, lack of consistency control etc.

##### 18.  Your Botnet is My Botnet: Analysis of a Botnet Takeover

What does it mean for a computer to be a "bot"?
> A computer becoming a bot means the the computer has been compromised by an attacker and became part of a botnet. The computer is basically used as a resource to perform malicious activities.

In Torpig, how does a machine become a bot, and how does it receive instructions to carry out attacks?
> A machine becomes a bot via a drive-by download attack and happens when a user visits legitimate but vulnerable websites which are modified to contain HTML that causes the user’s browser to request JS code. This aids in downloading malicious executable which is used to intall Mebroot (rootkit that replaces the boot record, a platform to manage modules) which can take control over the system wihout being detected. The bot sends updates and receives instructions from the C&C server via HTTP requests using mechanisms such as encryption or obfuscation.

Why is it difficult to prevent a machine frovalid at all times. The most common ones are strong consistency andm becoming a bot? Why is it difficult to simply block bots from accessing the C&C server?
> The attacks target legitimate websites by inserting seemingly harmless content and it is very hard to know you’ve been infected. It is hard to simply block bots from accessing C&C server because the bots use the Domain Generation Algorithm (domain-flux technique) to find the domain of the server by simply trying all possibilities.


##### 19.  Do you need a Blockchain?

What are some key indicators that suggest using a blockchain is a good idea?
>- application requires state to be persisted
>- there are many writers and the application cannot rely on a single trusted entity
>- public verifiability is desired

What are some key indicators that suggest using a blockchain is a bad idea?
>- application does not require state to be persisted
>- there is one writer
>- there are many writers that trust eachother

Why does permissioned vs. permissionless matter for these systems?
> It matters for public verifiability; if it is permissionless then anyone can read it. Furthermore, if writers are anonymous then it doesn’t make sense to have permissioned blockchain.


